---
layout: page
title: "C++"
category: stp
date: 2014-07-10 21:28:08
---

### Interface

The C++ interface is located in the `<pogs>/src/pogs.h` file. To use the solver your code must include this file. The solver consists of a single function `Pogs`, with signature

~~~ cpp
template <typename T, typename M>
void Pogs(PogsData<T, M> *pogs_data);
~~~

The type `T` represents the data type (either `float` or `double`), and `M` is the matrix type (currently `float*` and `double*` are supported, but further types will be added for sparse matrices). `PogsData` is a struct with fields

Inputs

  + `std::vector<FunctionObj<T> > f, g` correspond to the functions \\( f \\) and \\( g \\) in the objective. The dimension of `f` must be \\( m \\) and the dimension of `g` must be \\( n \\). See section below for an explanation of the `FunctionObj<T>` struct.
  + `const M A` corresponds to the data matrix \\( A \\). If \\( A \\) is a dense matrix, then `M A` is a pointer to a _row major_ matrix of dimension \\( m n \\).
  + `size_t m, n` are the dimensions of \\( y \\), resp. \\( x \\).

Outputs

  + `T *x, *y` point to where the primal optimal variables \\( x^\\star\_\\text{pogs} \\) and \\( y^\\star\_\\text{pogs} \\) should be saved. The memory must be pre-allocated and have dimension \\( m \\) (resp.  \\( n \\)). If either `x=NULL` or `y=NULL`, then the respective variable will be discarded upon exit. _Note_, \\( y^\\star\_\\text{pogs} = A x^\\star\_\\text{pogs} \\) is only satisfied to a given tolerance (see [Usage](http://foges.github.io/pogs/ref/usage.html)).
  + `T *l` points to where the dual optimal variable \\( \\lambda^\\star\_\\text{pogs} \\) should be stored. The memory must be pre-allocated and have dimension \\( m \\). If `l=NULL`, then the dual variable will be discarded upon exit.
  + `T optval` is the primal optimum \\( p^\\star\_\\text{pogs} = f(y^\\star\_\\text{pogs}) + g(x^\\star\_\\text{pogs}) \\). _Note_, since \\( y^\\star\_\\text{pogs} = A x^\\star\_\\text{pogs} \\) is only satisfied to a specified tolerance, `optval` may be a slightly lower than \\( p^\\star \\) (the actual optimum).

Parameters (for a detailed description see [Usage](http://foges.github.io/pogs/ref/usage.html) and [ADMM](http://foges.github.io/pogs/ref/admm.html))

  + `T rho` is the penalty term.
  + `T rel_tol, abs_tol` are the absolute and relative stopping tolerances.
  + `unsigned int max_iter` is the maximum number of iterations before the solver terminates.
  + `bool quiet` determines whether the solver should display progress information.
  + `bool adaptive_rho` determines whether \\( \\rho \\) should be chosen adaptively.

Factors (allocate space for these variables to use factorization caching -- see [Usage](http://foges.github.io/pogs/ref/usage.html))

  + `M factors` used for factorization caching. Allocate space using `AllocDenseFactors` and free space using `FreeDenseFactors`.

### FunctionObj

The `FunctionObj` struct is a parameterization of the generic function
\\[
  c \\, h(a \\, x - b) + d \\, x + e \\, x ^ 2,
\\]

and is defined as

~~~ cpp
template <typename T>
struct FunctionObj {
  // Parameters
  Function h;
  T a, b, c, d, e;

  // Constructor with defaults
  FunctionObj(Function h) : h(h), a(1), b(0), c(1), d(0), e(0) { }
};
~~~
where `Function` is an enum, taking on the values

~~~
kAbs,      kExp,     kHuber,   kIdentity, kIndBox01, kIndEq0,  kIndGe0,  kIndLe0,
kLogistic, kMaxNeg0, kMaxPos0, kNegEntr,  kNegLog,   kRecipr,  kSquare,  kZero.
~~~

Definitions of both `FunctionObj` and `Function` are located in `<pogs>/src/prox_lib.h`.

The `FunctionObj` is necessary when specifying the objective terms \\( f\_i(y\_i) \\) and \\( g\_j(x\_j) \\). For example, to specify that \\(g\_j(x\_j) = \|x_j\|\\) for \\(j = 1\\ldots 4\\) and \\(g\_5(x\_5) = I(x\_5 = 0)\\), use the syntax 

~~~ cpp
pogs_data.g.reserve(5);
for (unsigned int i = 0; i < 4; ++i)
  pogs_data.g.push_back(FunctionObj(kAbs));
pogs_data.g.push_back(FunctionObj(kIndGe0));
~~~


### Linking to CPU implementation

Open Terminal and navigate to the directory `<pogs>/src`, then execute the command

~~~
make pogs.o
~~~

This creates an object file `pogs.o`, to which your code must be linked. An example can be found in `<pogs>/examples/cpp/Makefile`. Look for the section marked `#CPU`. When compiling your code it is important to also link to a BLAS library. On an Apple computer this can be done using the flag `-framework Accelerate`.

### Linking to GPU implementation

Open terminal and navigate to the directory `<pogs>/src`, then execute the command

~~~
make pogs_cu_link.o
~~~

This creates two object files -- `pogs_cu.o` and `pogs_cu_link.o` -- to which your code must be linked. An example can be found in `<pogs>/examples/cpp/Makefile`. Look for the section marked `#GPU`. You will need to link the the CUDA runtime and CuBLAS libraries. To do so, use the `-lcudart -lcublas` flags.


