---
layout: page
title: "R"
category: stp
date: 2014-07-10 21:28:15
---

### Setup

Once you have downloaded POGS, open R and type

~~~
> setwd("<pogs>/interface_r/")
~~~

in the R console. The string `<pogs>` must be replaced with the directory to which POGS was downloaded. To compile wrapper type

~~~
> install.packages("pogs_1.0.tar.gz", repos = NULL, type="source")
~~~

Make sure to replace `1.0` by the latest version number.

To load the POGS library type

~~~
> library(pogs)
~~~

### R-specific usage

The R interface is a single R function, with signature 

~~~
solution = pogs(A, f, g, params)
~~~

Inputs:

  + `A` is the data matrix of dimension \\( m n \\).
  + `f` and `g` are lists with fields `h`, `a`, `b`, `c`, `d` and `e`, each of which must either be a vector of dimension \\( m \\) (resp. \\( n \\)) or a scalar. If a scalar is specified, then it is assumed that the scalar should be repeated \\( m \\) (resp. \\( n \\)) times. Multiple problems can be solved with the same matrix \\( A \\), if `f` and `g` are specified as nested lists.

Optional Inputs:

  + `params` is a list with fields `rel_tol`, `abs_tol`, `rho`, `max_iter`, `quiet`, `adaptive_rho`.

Outputs:

  + `solution$x` and `solution$y` are the solution vectors \\(x^\\star\_\\text{pogs}\\) resp. \\(y^\\star\_\\text{pogs}\\), and have dimension \\( m \\) resp. \\( n \\). If multiple objectives were specified, then `solution$x` and `solution$y` will be matrices of the appropriate dimension.
  + `solution$l` is the dual variable \\(\\lambda^\\star\_\\text{pogs}\\) corresponding to the constraint \\(Ax = y\\) and has dimension \\( m \\).
  + `solution$optval` is the value of the objective \\(p^\\star\_\\text{pogs}\\) at the solution (\\(p^\\star\_\\text{pogs} = f(y^\\star\_\\text{pogs}) + g(x^\\star\_\\text{pogs})\\)).

For more information type

~~~
> ?pogs
~~~


### \\(h\\)-Functions

The values `f$h` and `g$h` can be specified using one of 16 functions. These are 

~~~
kAbs,      kExp,     kHuber,   kIdentity, kIndBox01, kIndEq0,  kIndGe0,  kIndLe0,
kLogistic, kMaxNeg0, kMaxPos0, kNegEntr,  kNegLog,   kRecipr,  kSquare,  kZero
~~~

For example to specify that \\(g\_j(x\_j) = \|x_j\|\\) for \\(j = 1\\ldots 4\\) and \\(g\_5(x\_5) = I(x\_5 = 0)\\), use the syntax

~~~ r
> g$h = c(kAbs(4), kIndEq0())
~~~


### Example Usage

See the examples listed on the left-hand side under Examples.

