---
layout: page
title: "MATLAB"
category: stp
date: 2014-07-10 21:28:11
---

### Setup

Once you have downloaded POGS, open MATLAB and type

~~~
>> cd <pogs>/src/interface_matlab
~~~

in the MATLAB console. The string `<pogs>` must be replaced with the directory to which POGS was downloaded. To compile wrapper type

~~~
>> pogs_setup
~~~

Alternatively typing 

~~~
>> pogs_setup gpu
~~~

will compile the GPU version.


### MATLAB-specific usage

The MATLAB interface is a single MEX-function, with signature 

~~~ matlab
[x, y, l, optval, factors] = pogs(A, f, g, params, factors)
~~~

Inputs:

  + `A` is the data matrix of dimension `m * n`.
  + `f` and `g` are structs with fields `h`, `a`, `b`, `c`, `d` and `e`, each of which must either be a vector of dimension `m` (resp. `n`) or a scalar. If a scalar is specified, then it is assumed that the scalar should be repeated `m` (resp. `n`) times.

Optional Inputs:

  + `params` is a struct with fields `rel_tol`, `abs_tol`, `rho`, `max_iter` and `quiet`.
  + `factors` contains various state variables generated by POGS. To solve multiple problems with the same matrix `A`, but different functions `f` and `g`, feed `factors` back into the solver. WARNING: Do not attempt to re-use `factors` when solving for different `A` matrices. The behavior is undefined.

Outputs:

  + `x` and `y` are the solution vectors \\(x^\\star\\) resp. \\(y^\\star\\), and have dimension `m` resp. `n`.
  + `l` is the dual variable \\(\\lambda^\\star\\) corresponding to the constraint \\(Ax = y\\) and has dimension `m`.
  + `optval` is the value of the objective \\(p^\\star\\) at the solution (\\(p^\\star = f(y^\\star) + g(x^\\star)\\)).
  + `factors` is a struct containing various state variables needed by POGS. To solve multiple problems with the same matrix `A`, but different functions `f` and `g`, feed `factors` back into the solver. WARNING: Do not attempt to re-use `factors` when solving for different `A` matrices. The behavior is undefined.


For more information type

~~~
>> help pogs
~~~

### \\(h\\)-Functions

The values `f.h` and `g.h` can be specified using one of 16 functions. These are 

~~~
kAbs,      kExp,     kHuber,   kIdentity, kIndBox01, kIndEq0,  kIndGe0,  kIndLe0,
kLogistic, kMaxNeg0, kMaxPos0, kNegEntr,  kNegLog,   kRecipr,  kSquare,  kZero
~~~

For example to specify that \\(g\_j(x\_j) = \|x_j\|\\) for \\(j = 1\\ldots 4\\) and \\(g\_5(x\_5) = I(x\_5 = 0)\\), use the syntax

~~~
>> g.h = [kAbs(4); kIndEq0];
~~~

See [Functions](http://foges.github.io/pogs/ref/functions) for a more detailed explanation of the functions and their usage.

### Example Usage

See the examples listed on the left-hand side under Examples.

